Welcome Back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a horror, mystery film
from 2019, titled Midsommar.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Dani is worried about her parents who aren't
picking up their phone.
She sits at her computer, rereading her sister's
ominous message, suspicious about what she
means by it.
Unsure of what to do, Dani calls her boyfriend
for reassurance.
He tells her that she's putting too much thought
into her sister's email and that it's probably
another grab for attention.
She's a little upset because it sounds like
he doesn't understand that her sister is bipolar.
Even though Dani is in tears, she still agrees
with his opinion.
After that call, she paces around her apartment,
talking to a friend about her boyfriend.
She's worried that she's being too needy,
but her friend tells her that if he feels
that way than maybe he's not the right one.
During the call, she sends another email to
her sister.
Suddenly she gets a second call from an unknown
number.
Meanwhile, Dani's boyfriend Christian is out
with his friends, talking to them about her.
They suggest that he should leave her because
she's too overbearing, but he worries that
if he does that he might regret it later.
He suddenly gets another call from her and
leaves the table to answer.
Christian picks up the phone, only to hear
her screaming and crying on the other side
of the line.
He walks to her apartment and later he's seen
comforting her, as she continues to cry uncontrollably
because her entire family died.
Simultaneously, firemen are seen breaking
into her parents house.
They find them dead in their own bed.
Her sister has killed herself and taken them
with her.
A while later, Dani is lying on her bed, depressed.
Christian comes in and tells her that he'll
go to a party.
She says that she'll join him, even though
he's not particularly eager about that.
At the party, Dani's interest is sparked by
a conversation her boyfriend and his friends
Pelle, Josh and Mark are having about the
summer trip to Sweden the group had been planning.
It's the first time she's hearing about it
and the trip is in 2 weeks.
Back at her apartment, she confronts him,
asking why he didn't tell her.
He tries to weasel around the issue, but Dani
doesn't understand why Christian wasn't open
with her.
She doesn't have a problem with him going
on the trip.
He says he's sorry and she tells him that
she doesn't need an apology, just openness.
Dani softens, worried that he'll leave, then
asks if he'll be going because of his thesis.
He still doesn't know what that will be.
Some time after, Christian is hanging out
with his friends and they're talking about
Sweden.
Dani calls him, to say that she'll be up in
a moment.
While waiting, Christian tells them that he
invited her on the trip, but that she won't
go, even though she said yes.
They're upset with him, but promise to act
as if they knew about the invitation and as
they don't have a problem with it.
Dani arrives and they all greet her nicely,
but act super awkward toward her.
Mark asks Christian to join him in the other
room.
Pelle chats with Dani, while Josh completely
ignores her.
She asks about the week he had planned for
the group in his village, because her birthday
will be on the same day that they'll be arriving.
He tells her that it's actually a 9 day festival
held by his small community.
Pelle shows her some photos of previous festivities
and she's very impressed.
Suddenly, he turns to her and says, with all
honesty, that he's very glad that she'll be
coming with them.
He also tells her that he's very sorry about
her parents and that he can empathize, because
he had also lost his own.
Dani gets upset and runs to the bathroom.
On the plane to Europe, Dani cries in the
toilet.
They arrive to Sweden and drive to Pelle's
village located somewhere in the north of
the country.
The group stops in a field where all the other
young people coming back home have gathered.
Pelle is greeted by his brother Ingmar, who
introduces them to his friends Simon and Connie.
Ingmar gives them some shrooms and they all
take it, even though Dani is reluctant at
first.
Later, they sit under a tree and feel the
effects of the drug.
Mark is not having a good time.
Pelle guides them through the experience,
talking about the nature surrounding them.
Dani hears distant singing and freaks out.
She walks by a group of people and they all
laugh at her.
Ingmar tries to calm her, but she runs to
the bathroom.
Inside she has some kind of horrible hallucination,
then she dreams about her family.
She wakes up and Christian tells her that
they've been waiting for her to wake up for
6 hours.
The entire group of young people walk through
the woods and eventually arrive at the village,
where the people from the community welcome
them.
They are already wearing their festival clothes
and playing music.
Dani enjoys the serene atmosphere of the place,
smiling and taking it all in.
Pelle greets one of the elders, who welcomes
them eagerly.
He tells them that the official festivities
will begin the next day.
Suddenly, their attention is drawn by music,
leading them to the center of the village.
The elder Siv welcomes all of them to the
festival and wishes them a happy Midsommar.
She says that it had been 90 years since their
last feast and that it will be 90 more until
the next one.
They raise they're glasses and cheer.
Simultaneously, a disabled child is shown
drawing and not participating in the ceremony.
Siv passes a torch to an older woman and then
a second one to an older man, proclaiming
something to the heavens.
Meanwhile, Maya is seen getting ready in a
washroom.
Music starts outside and she joins the celebration.
She sees the group sitting on the sidelines
as the villagers dance around them.
Later, Maya kicks Christian's bottom as she
passes by him during the dance.
Him and Josh go to join in.
Pelle gives Dani a gift for her birthday and
she tells him that Christian forgot about
it.
She thanks him for the portrait.
After a while, Pelle gives the group a tour
around the village and answers Josh's questions
about the community.
They see a few children having a lesson in
the grass and he tells them that they are
learning about the power of the ancient runes.
Coney asks Dani and Christian how long they've
been together and they give a different answer.
During the tour Christian spots a building
in the distance.
It's a sacred temple, which no one is allowed
to enter.
The group splits up in two.
Ingmar and his guests pass by a caged bear.
He shows them a long parchment that tells
a love story.
Pelle takes his friends to their accommodation
in a beautifully decorated cabin, which is
shared by all of the people of the community.
Dani goes to look around the building and
finds a wall of photos with the May queens.
Meanwhile, Pelle tells Christian that he forgot
her birthday.
Dani asks about the wall, prompting the whole
group to come over.
Christian calls her outside and starts singing
happy birthday to her, while trying to light
a birthday candle.
He lies to her first, saying that he didn't
forget but got messed up because of the constant
daylight.
But when she sees through him, he apologizes
and she blows out the candle.
That night, everyone is preparing for bed
and Pelle tells them that the first day of
the festival is very important.
Josh knows why, but neither him nor Pelle
share that with the rest of them.
Christian wants to search for it, but has
no cell service.
The next day, the celebration for the first
day of the festival is under way.
Everyone joins the community table in front
of the sacred temple, as young girls are seen
picking flowers.
Christian asks how long they will have to
stand and Pelle tells him that they'll stand
until it's right to sit.
Dani comes over and gives him flowers, then
a boy rings a bell and the old couple that
received the torches the previous day arrive
at the table.
The two of them sit down and everyone follows.
Josh asks if they are the ones and Pelle confirms
it.
The couple begins eating and all the others
follow again.
Marks spots a girl he likes on the other side
of the table.
Dani talks to one of the women who tells her
that the babies there are raised by everyone.
The couple stands up and performs some kind
of ritual.
Everyone stands and drinks in their honor.
Then the two of them get carried away on their
chairs.
All of the people follow them again, except
Mark.
Everyone is gathered around a large cliff,
looking up at it.
They're waiting to witness the sacred custom.
The couple gets carried on top of the cliff
and the distant sounds of a horn can be heard.
Josh stands next to Pelle, asking if he can
read the scrolls that one of the elders is
reading out off.
The old man and woman get their hands sliced
open and they paint their blood over some
ancient runes.
The woman appears on the top of the cliff
first.
She jumps and crashes on the ground.
Dani is completely shocked.
Ingmar tries to calm Simon and Connie, who
are beside themselves.
Then the man appears on the cliff as well.
He jumps, but falls on his feet and doesn't
die.
He gets beaten to death with a wooden hammer.
The foreigners are freaking out and Siv explains
the custom to them.
She wants the to understand that it as a great
joy for them and that when it's her turn it
will be a great joy for her too.
Siv says that they give their life away before
it can spoil.
Then she turns to Dani and says that it is
not good to dodge the inevitable, since it
corrupts the spirit.
The community is walking back to the village
and the foreigners are running up front, with
Dani ready to fall apart.
Christian comes back to the cabin and finds
Josh there, working on his thesis.
He tells him that he's decided to make his
thesis on the village as well.
Josh is angry because Christian already knew
he was going to write his thesis on the Midsommar
festival.
He tells him to find his own subject and passion,
not take his.
But Christian is adamant, he offers him to
collaborate on the thesis or do separate ones
on the same subject.
Josh goes to talk to Pelle immediately, but
he tells him that it doesn't matter what either
of them want to write about because the elders
are very protective of their rituals and they
won't allow them to write about the village.
He tells him that he'll talk to the elders
to get him off his back.
Meanwhile, Dani is packing franticly, but
Pelle comes over to talk to her.
He apologizes, saying that he wanted to share
this experience with his friends.
She tells him that she doesn't understand
anything and Pelle says that he was most excited
for her to come.
He tells her that he understands what she's
been going through, because he lost his parents
in a fire when he was young.
Yet he found a new family in the community
and he wants to give that to her, because
she deserves a real family.
Later that day, the bodies of the old couple
get disposed off in a ritual way.
Christian checks on Dani, but she asks if
he was even disturbed by what they saw.
He says that he was, but that it's a matter
of cultural differences and that they should
try to acclimate to the ways of the community.
That night she asks Josh for a sleeping pill,
but she still gest woken up by noises in the
middle of the night.
All of the beds around her are empty, so she
follows a few people outside.
Then she sees Christian and his friends leave.
She screams and images from the ritual appear
in her mind, one after the other, until an
image of her family appears in the foot of
the cliff.
She's actually having a nightmare.
Maya is actually awake.
She goes over to Christian's bed and places
something under it.
Josh sees her do that.
On the second day of the festival, Dani is
the only one to sleep late.
Pelle is gardening when Mark and Josh approach
him.
He tells Josh that he can write his thesis,
but that he can't use any real names or the
location.
He also has to collaborate with Christian.
Josh asks him about the thing that Maya left
underneath Christian's bed and Pelle tells
him that it's a love rune.
Christian joins them and Pelle gives him the
news about the thesis and tells him that Maya
seems to like him.
Suddenly, they hear a man screaming and running
toward Mark, who's taking a piss over a dead
tree.
The man goes after him, but the others stop
him, as Pelle takes Mark to the side and explains
that he peed on the ancestral tree that has
a lot of meaning for them.
Connie runs into the cabin and tells Dani
that her and Simon are leaving.
One of the elders comes over and tells her
that her fiancée has already left and that
he'll meet her on the train station.
She can't believe that he would leave her
and gets horribly upset.
Dani tells Christian about Simon, but he doesn't
seem terribly concerned and continues his
conversation about approval of mates within
the community.
The man tells him that they often need to
invite people from the outside.
Dani gets invited by one of the women to cook
with them.
She gives her an apron and they tell her that
they are making meat tarts.
Maya makes a special one.
Meanwhile, Josh has a conversation with one
of the elders about their sacred scrolls.
The scrolls always have blank pages near the
end, because they are ever changing.
Their last iteration is written by the disabled
child.
He draws on the blank pages and the elders
interpret it.
The elder tells him that all of their oracles
are deliberate products of inbreeding, so
that they have unclouded minds open for the
source.
Mark lurks around the sacred temple, looking
for the girl he likes, when a child calls
him for dinner.
They get served meat pies.
Dani asks if anyone has seen Connie and one
of the villagers tells her that he drove her
to meet Simon at the station.
Dani doesn't understand how he could've left
her like that and comments that she could
see Christian doing that.
The man that got upset about Mark pissing
on the tree is still angry about it.
Josh and Christian argue as well.
He takes a bite out of the pie and finds a
pubic hair in it, then looks at Maya.
Mark gets called away by the girl that he
likes.
That night, Danni asks Josh for another sleeping
pill.
Later, he runs over to the cabin where the
scroll is kept and starts taking pictures
of it.
Mark catches him doing it, but as Josh moves
closer to him he sees that there is something
wrong.
Suddenly, he gets hit over the head.
The disabled child approaches the unconscious
Josh wearing Mark's face.
Christian wakes up the next day and sees that
Josh is gone from his bed.
At breakfast Dani asks about Mark and Josh,
but he says that he's not too concerned.
One of the elders proclaims that the scroll
had been stolen and asks that it gets returned
safely.
After breakfast, two of the elders approach
Christian and Dani, saying that it's suspicious
that two of their friends ended up missing
the same day.
Christian throws Josh under the bus, but Pelle
says that he feels responsible.
Dani is sent off with the other women and
Christian has to go to meet with Siv.
A special tea gets prepared for the young
women of the village, which Dani drinks as
well.
The ritual which they call the competition
is about to begin, when Dani realizes that
the tea probably had mushrooms in it.
An older woman proclaims the beginning of
the competition and the women start dancing
in a circle.
Meanwhile, Christian is at Siv's home looking
at the iconography on her walls.
They sit opposite one another and she immediately
tells him that he had been approved to mate
with Maya.
The women continue dancing and one by one
drop down and out of the competition.
Christian joins the crowd that watches the
dance and one of the women gives him some
of the mushroom tea.
He glances at Maya and drinks it.
Meanwhile, Dani keeps getting dizzy while
dancing, but she doesn't stop or fall over.
Only three of them are left, when she suddenly
starts speaking in Swedish with one of the
other girls.
As they laugh and dance, the other two run
into each other.
Dani is the only one left.
Everyone stands up and circles her.
The older woman crowns her as the May queen.
She gets her picture taken and as they walk
her away, Pelle comes over and kisses her.
They lift her in the air and take her to the
table.
Dani sits at the head and everyone follows
her every move.
When Christian sits down, she begins to eat
and everyone else does as well.
He doesn't understand what's happening and
starts feeling the effects of the tea.
The entire village cheers for the May queen.
They tell her that she's part of the family
now.
Maya calls Christian to follow her into the
barn and Dani notices that there's something
happening.
Siv tells Dani that she has to bless their
crops as the queen and doesn't allow Christian
to come with her.
She enters a carriage, being pulled by some
of the young women from the village.
As she's driven away, Christian gets asked
to go to the barn again as the rest of he
villagers stand for him.
Dani blesses the crops in a traditional ritual,
while Christian is being prepared by the elders
to mate with Maya.
They drug him again and lead him in, where
the girl is waiting for him together with
other women.
Dani is still performing the blessing ritual.
Christian makes love to Maya as the other
women sing to her and to him as well.
The May queen comes back to the village and
one of the women tells her that Siv is expecting
her.
She hears something happening in the barn
and goes to check what it is, regardless of
the woman's pleads not to.
Dani peaks inside and sees what is happening,
the goes outside and starts screaming.
The women take her away and get her to her
bed.
She freaks out and the other women start mimicking
her cries.
Christian is done with his part of the ritual
and storms out of the barn.
He gets confused and disoriented, trying to
run away, when he sees a foot planted in the
garden.
Christian hides in a shed where he finds Simon's
dead body.
An elder sneaks up on him and drugs him again.
He gets woken up by a woman who tells him
that he can't speak or move.
The final Midsommar ritual begins, with Dani
at its head.
Siv proclaims that 9 sacrifices will be made
to the village - 4 of their own, 4 foreigners
and one chosen by the queen.
Two of their own have already given their
lives and two have volunteered, one of which
is Ingmar.
Pelle is honored for bringing them new blood.
Dani has to choose the last of the nine.
It is between a local and Christian.
She makes her choice.
The bodies are being taken to the sacred temple
at the foot of the village and are carefully
placed inside.
The final is being prepared by the elders
and a few children.
They open up the bear's body and place Christian
inside of it, still alive.
The elders bless the offering and give the
two villagers drugs.
The temple is ritually set on fire as the
entire community is gathered outside witnessing
the offering.
Everything inside gets burned away and the
villagers convulse and cry, feeling the pain
of their people inside.
The May queen looks onto the burning temple
and cracks a final grin.